Update HPC OnDemand instructions, beautify some things, add bitterroot, civet-like environment how-to (#27744)
idaholab/moose: modules/doc/content/help/faq/apptainer.md

> # Civet-like Environment

Reviewer: "CIVET" instead? If so, this will need to be corrected several times. Noting once here.

Author: Actually I was thinking of changing this to Apptainer Environment.

!style! halign=left
Inevitably, PRs will fail during [Civet's](https://civet.inl.gov) [!ac](CI) testing while they
appear to pass on your own machine. Apptainer containers can help you reproduce the error, in an
interactive fashion.
!style-end!

## Launch Container

!style! halign=left
First, we need the [!ac](URI) detailing what container the job is failing in. By capturing the first
few lines from any Civet step that failed (red box), the [!ac](URI) will be listed. As an example:
!style-end!

```language=yaml
//: Running in versioned apptainer container moose-dev
BUILD_ROOT/moose/: Executing moosebuild in environment oras://mooseharbor.hpc.inl.gov/moose-dev/moose-dev-x86_64:4b79189
INFO:    Using cached SIF image
```

The above contains the [!ac](URI) we want:

```
oras://mooseharbor.hpc.inl.gov/moose-dev/moose-dev-x86_64:4b79189
```

With the [!ac](URI) known, launch an interactive shell using

> [HPC Ondemand](hpc_ondemand.md#interactive-shell-idinteractive-shell) for any of the [!ac](INL)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[HPC OnDemand](hpc_ondemand.md#interactive-shell-idinteractive-shell) for any of the [!ac](INL)
```

[!ac](HPC) cluster machine login nodes, and perform the following:

```bash
[~]> module load apptainer
[~]> apptainer shell oras://mooseharbor.hpc.inl.gov/moose-dev/moose-dev-x86_64:4b79189

[sha256:52660332a1977bb9cbb3e4aaf9b19f810669eba8579b8dda6193eba7b05cf359][~]>
```

!style! style=position:relative;top:-15px;left:5px;font-style:italic;font-size:small;
(see [Apptainer Features](help/faq/apptainer.md#features) section below on how to control the
lengthy prompt)
!style-end!

## Troubleshoot

!style! halign=left

> You are now operating from within the same container that which your PR is failing. By default,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are now operating from within the same container within which your PR is failing. By default,
```

your home directory should be available. And by extension, your `~/projects` directory containing
your project.
!style-end!

> Next, simply put; Clone your application (if you have not). Build it. Run it. Test it. Do whatever

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, simply put: clone your application (if you have not); build it; run it; and test it. Do whatever
```

it is that Civet failed to do.

### Troubleshooting Hints

- Be absolutely certain that your project is clean. It might even be best to do exactly what Civet
  does: Clone your project accordingly just as the `Fetch and Branch` step. Don't use the one you
  been developing in.

- Re-visit the failing step occurring in Civet, and scrutinize with the utmost care all commands,

>   arguments used, environment variables set, etc. Even going so far as checking the steps that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  arguments used, environment variables set, etc. One should even go so far as checking the steps that
```

  precede the failing step to determine if those results are cause for concern (cloning succeeded,
  but perhaps a submodule was not).

- Perhaps Civet was instructed to treat warnings as errors (`make -Werror`). Or perhaps Civet is
  building in debug mode (`METHOD=dbg make`), etc.

- Missing files not included in your PR (a missing `git add`).

If you're still unable to reproduce the error, please keep in mind one golden truth:
+Containers are immutable+. The lack of reproducibility is being caused by *something* that is

> different in your environment compared to Civet's. Things like Network connectivity, shell flavor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
different in your environment compared to Civet's. Things like network connectivity, shell flavor
```

> (tsch, zsh, bash), CPU microachitechture (extremely rare), and the like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(tsch, zsh, bash), CPU microarchitecture (extremely rare), and the like.
```

!alert! note title=Many Civet steps +do not+ have network access
Beyond the initial cloning of the application, most steps are barred from network access. You
can mimmic these behaviors if need be. See [Apptainer Features](help/faq/apptainer.md#features)
below for details.

> !alert-end!

Author: TODO: I need to add how to enable this feature.

## Apptainer Features id=features

!style! halign=left
The following are only a few of the many available features Apptainer has to offer.
!style-end!

#### Paths and Mounts

!style! halign=left

> You can instruct Apptainer to mount any path you have access to, to be made available inside the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can instruct Apptainer to mount any path you have access to, so that it is available inside the
```

container. On [!ac](INL) [!ac](HPC) machines, this is most useful if you enjoy operating in your
`/scratch` directory. You can instruct Apptainer to mount this location by way of the `-B` argument:
!style-end!

```bash
apptainer shell -B /scratch oras://...

[moose-dev][~]> ls /scratch  # contents of scratch is displayed
```

> Do you want to mount something somewhere else? Also with read-only permissions?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Do you want to mount something somewhere else - perhaps also with read-only permissions?
```

```bash
apptainer shell -B /scratch:/somewhere_else:ro oras://...

[moose-dev][~]> ls /somewhere_else  # contents of somewhere_else which contains scratch is displayed
[moose-dev][~]> touch /somewhere_else/<your user id>/testing
touch: cannot touch '/somewhere_else/<your user id>/testing': Read-only file system
```

Multiple PATHs:

```bash
apptainer shell -B /scratch:/somewhere_else:ro,/projects oras://...
```

#### Inherited Environment Variables

!style! halign=left
If you wish to have some environment variable made available as the container passes control over to
you, you only need to prefix your variable with the following Apptainer influential variable
`APPTAINERENV_`, as so:
!style-end!

```bash
[~]> export APPTAINERENV_foo=bar
[~]> apptainer shell oras://...

[moose-dev][~]> echo $foo
bar
```

Extremely useful for obvious reasons, you can also use `APPTAINERENV_` to control how the prompt is
displayed:

```bash
[~]> export APPTAINERENV_APPTAINER_NAME=moose-dev
[~]> apptainer shell oras://mooseharbor.hpc.inl.gov/moose-dev/moose-dev-x86_64:4b79189

[moose-dev][~]>
```

!alert! tip title=Custom Prompt

> There is an all encompasing `$CUSTOM_PROMPT` variable that allows you to pass your own prompt:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is an all-encompassing `$CUSTOM_PROMPT` variable that allows you to pass your own prompt:
```

```bash
[~]> export APPTAINERENV_CUSTOM_PROMPT="\[\033[1;34m\][my-container]\[\033[1;32m\][\t]\[\033[0m\]> "
[~]> apptainer shell oras://mooseharbor.hpc.inl.gov/moose-dev/moose-dev-x86_64:4b79189

[my-container][12:17:43]>
```

> <!-- NOTE to editor: sub children elements require less top possitioning (-15 vs -7) -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<!-- NOTE to editor: sub children elements require less top positioning (-15 vs -7) -->
```

> # Apptainer

Reviewer 2: I think we should move this to something like:
```
Getting started->Installation->Apptainer
```
We already have an option for docker here:
https://mooseframework.inl.gov/getting_started/installation/index.html

We could have the same with apptainer.
What do you think?

Author: Maybe, but it is only useful for those with access to INL HPC machines. I wanted to group this in with that somehow.

Reviewer: Would it be better to place this in `moose/doc/content/help/inl` then, in order to be directly beside the other HPC-related documents?

Author: I originally put it there, but that breaks Bison documentation.

## Troubleshoot

!style halign=left
You are now operating from within the same container within which your PR is failing. By default,
your home directory should be available. And by extension, your `~/cluster_name/projects` directory
containing your project.

!alert! tip
See [Apptainer Features](help/faq/apptainer.md#features) below if you are operating from your
`/scratch` directory.
!alert-end!

Next, simply put: Clone your application (if you have not); build it; run it; and test it. Do
whatever it is that [!ac](CIVET) failed to do.

### Troubleshooting Hints

- Be absolutely certain that your project is clean. It might even be best to do exactly what

>   [!ac](CIVET) does: Clone your project accordingly just as the `Fetch and Branch` step. Don't use
>   the one you been developing in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [!ac](CIVET) does: Clone a clean copy of your project just as in the `Fetch and Branch` step. Don't use
  the one you have been developing in.
```

Author: I am not sure I like this change. A clean copy to a lot of users is "cloning it". But Civet may be excluding, or including submodules. Which is why I prefer "clone how Civet clones". Something along those lines.

Do you have another suggesting other than removing "accordingly"? Maybe "identically"?

Author: @cticenhour Just pinging on you this, if you're okay with the new change.
